Now we're moving on to Linux logs.
Keep in mind, we're using CentOS version 7.x.
We'll review the primary location for logs,
we'll learn what types of logs are kept,
we'll install audit that makes viewing logs easier.
Then we'll view some sample events. Let's get started.
The directory for logs can be found in /var/log.
Once you've navigated to var/log,
type "ls" to see the contents.
Let's look at some of the logs in our CentOS lab server.
The texts in white are log files,
directories are represented by blue text,
and finally, an archive file is featured in red text.
As you recall, we used yum to view updates in lesson 2.
You'll see the log file for yum listed here.
Also important is the secure log file,
this is where successful and failed login information is stored.
More on that in just a moment.
Lastly, you'll see the cron log file.
cron is the application Linux uses to schedule tasks.
As you can see, there are many others,
these are just a few key examples that are noteworthy.
Let's install Audit to make viewing logs easier.
To do so type "sudo",
which you'll recall grants us elevated privileges,
"yum install audit" and hit "Enter",
you'll be prompted for your password.
We use audit to view successful and failed login attempts.
To view successful logins type the command as shown in hit "Enter".
Your exact results will vary based on the logins attempted on your server,
but the output should be similar.
To view failed logins,
type this command as shown.
Again, your data will vary,
but the output should look similar.
Now that we've learned where our CentOS distro stores its logs,
and how to view them,
what should we monitor an alert on?
We should absolutely monitor an alert on failed login attempts,
this is patient zero when it comes to security.
An adversary is attempting to log into your computer,
disabled and new cron jobs could be away for
an adversary to establish persistence and should be monitored.
Remember, cron jobs are scheduled tasks,
it is not uncommon for an adversary to use scheduled tasks
to re-establish a connection in the event their connection is lost.
As we learned in a previous lesson,
there are edge cases where we do not want updates installed on specific servers,
due to legacy or custom applications.
We may want to alert on yum updates for those servers.
Finally, most Linux servers are installed to support applications.
There will likely be many logs that are subject to
monitoring and alerting in your organization.
Unless you are dealing with a small amount of servers,
it is recommended that you enable log shipping on all of your devices,
otherwise, you will spend most of your time
connecting and disconnecting from servers to view logs.
This greatly increases the odds you'll miss something.
By enabling log shipping,
you can utilize centralized storage for all of your log files.
This allows you to administer your environment more effectively,
as there is now one single location for all of your system logs.
Monitoring your devices will be considerably more streamlined with the logs in one place.
By having all of your applicable system logs in one place,
it eases compliance requirements.
We'll cover more of this later in the lesson.